The rector, having regard to the laws and rules involved, decrees Students’ enrolment in the Degree Programme in Applied Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence of the Faculty of Information Engineering, Informatics and Statistics in the degree programme for academic year 2021-2022 is subject to the previous acquisition of an Upper Secondary Education diploma and to the participation to one of the following admission tests.
The TOLC-I test, taken in 2020 or 2021, delivered on a computerized platform and managed by the
Consortium for the Interuniversity-Access Integrated Systems (CISIA).
The SAT (Scholastic Assessment Test) General Test, managed by the College Board which can be taken at any of the SAT Centres in the world.
All selection rounds are open to EU citizens (regardless of where they reside) and non-EU citizens legally
residing in Italy.
For each selection round, a number of available places is reserved for non-EU citizens who are residing
abroad. 
The payment can be made at any Italian branch of Unicredit bank or online.
Registration for a selection round entails making the payment with a payment slip of the sum of €10
that is valid for one selection round only. If candidates decide to take part in a subsequent selection
round too, they must make a new registration for the selection round and make another payment using
the payment slip of the sum of €10. On no account will the registration fee be refunded.
Any communications will be sent to the e-mail address provided for the registration on Infostud. We
recommend that candidates carefully check the e-mail address is correct and that they continually
check their inbox.
The TOLC-I test is the online test of CISIA for engineering subjects. The TOLC-I test (also in the
TOLC@HOME format) consists of 50 questions divided into 4 sections. The sections whose score counts
for the selection procedure are: Mathematics, Science, Logic, Verbal comprehension. The candidate who
undergoes the test obtains a TOLC-I score, summing up the scores of the four sections.
The TOLC-I score is necessary for the admission procedure and determines the ranking as described in Point 1.5 and Appendix A. For the purposes of the selection rounds of this
announcement the best score achieved will be used among those achieved from the 1st of January 2020
as per the calendar in Article 2.
Two versions of TOLC-I are offered: English TOLC-I and Italian TOLC-I.
The candidate can opt for any of the two versions. However, the Italian TOLC-I requires the candidate to
provide an additional confirmation of the adequate knowledge of the English language (see Point 1.4). The
Italian TOLC-I includes an extra section in English. The score of the extra section does not contribute to the
ranking but can be used to attest the knowledge of English, as explained in Point 1.4. Further information on
the structure of the TOLC-I and the assessment criteria are indicated in Appendix A.
The registration to TOLC-I can be made on-line on CISIA’s portal upon the
payment of a € 30 contribution and the selection of the test venue. TOLC-I tests may be taken at Sapienza
University or any other accredited centre of the CISIA consortium. Each test date is split into several turns.
The test venues and timetables are indicated on the CISIA's portal. The TOLC-I registration
receipt (printed via the CISIA website) must be shown on the day of the test to enter the test room. The
TOLC home test is offered at the student's home on the dates and sessions reported on the
CISIA'S portal. The candidate is recommended to pay utmost attention to the registration deadlines for the tests and the
selection rounds.
The SAT is a standardized test used to apply to colleges and universities worldwide. It includes a Reading
Test, a Writing and Language Test, and a Math Test. It is managed by the College Board. Information on
the tests such as dates, fees, test centres, deadlines and score reports can be found on the College Board
website. The candidate who undergoes the test obtains a SAT
score. The SAT score is necessary for the admission procedure and determines the ranking as described
in Point 1.5 and Appendix A.
For the purposes of the selection
rounds of this call the best score will be considered among those achieved from the 1st of January 2020 as
per the calendar in Article 2.
Once the terms for taking part in the selection rounds are over, the rankings are prepared for each selection
round. Candidates are ranked according to their score. Scores are expressed in hundredths as explained
in Appendix A.
For those candidates that have taken the admission test multiple times (during the time interval going
from the first of January 2020 to 24:00 of the day before the deadline for registration for the selection
round), the score that will be used for the preparation of the ranking lists is the highest one they
achieved in all their attempts.
The publication date of the ranking list related to each selection round is indicated in the calendar of procedures
as explained in Article 2.
The ranking lists are published both online and in printed format
at the Student Office.
The amount paid for the pre-enrolment fee will be deducted from
the enrolment fee described in Article 4. On no account will the pre-enrolment fee be refunded.
The place they leave vacant becomes available for the subsequent selection
round.
The enrolment process is completed by paying the first instalment of the enrolment tuition fees for the
academic year 2021-2022, to which the €16 stamp duty and the regional fee are added.
Hello-Foreign Students Office have the right to verify that all of the submitted documents are genuine, as
well as request any additional documents deemed necessary to confirm possession/authenticity of entry
requirements.
In compliance with the regulations issued by the competent authorities in the context of the Coronavirus
emergency, the registration procedures such as submission, processing and administrative checking of the
mandatory documents will also be carried out online.
The regulations in effect for the academic year 2021-2022 are available online.
Upon enrolment, candidates who succeeded in a selection round can apply for an abbreviation of the degree
programme or the recognition of university exams they may have held during their own previous academic
career according to the following procedures.
In compliance with the regulations issued by the competent authorities in the context of the
Coronavirus emergency, the registration procedures such as submission, processing and
administrative checking of the mandatory documents will also be carried out online.
Special situations will be evaluated based on the declarations in the submitted certificates.
Candidates with documented disabilities are eligible for accommodations when taking the SAT test. Some
available accommodations are extended time, extra and extended breaks, and reading and seeing
accommodations. 
It can take several weeks for accommodations to be approved.
The present announcement is also published online and at the Student Office. Please refer to the website and the Student Office for updates.
See the contact details below.
In compliance with articles 4, 5 and 6 of law no. 241/90, the official in charge of the administrative procedure
is Graziella Censi, Head of the Student Office of the Faculty of Information Engineering, Information
Technology and Statistics.
In case of disputes, the competent court will be Rome.
The TOLC-I test is open to students enrolled in the last or second-last year of upper secondary school and to
those who already hold an upper secondary education diploma. The candidate can take the test at Sapienza
University of Rome or any other authorised TOLC-I test member venue of CISIA. The test is also provided
in the TOLC@HOME format, which allows the candidate to take the test at home. The calendar with the test
dates is available online. 
The TOLC-I test consists of 50 questions divided into 4 sections. The sections whose score counts for the
selection procedure are: Mathematics, Science, Logic, Verbal comprehension. The number of questions
and time available for each section are detailed in the table below.
The final result of the TOLC-I test is an absolute score determined by the number of correct answers, the
number of wrong answers, and the number of answers not given, in the Mathematics, Science, Logic and
Verbal comprehension sections. The score is computed as follows.
The Italian TOLC-I includes an additional section on English. The number of questions and the time available
are detailed in the table below.
In the English language section, no penalty is given for wrong answers. The score is determined by assigning
1 point for each correct answer and 0 points for each wrong or not given answers. The score obtained in the
English section of the Italian TOLC-I does not contribute to the overall score used for ranking. However, it
will determine the satisfaction of the English language requirements as per Point 1.4.
Each candidate can check the score achieved in the TOLC-I on CISIA’s website by logging in with the access
credentials used when registering on CISIA’s portal. If the test is taken in the TOLC@HOME format, the
score will be available in 48 hours after the completion of the test.
For the purposes of the selection rounds of this announcement the best score achieved
by the candidate will be used. More detailed information on how the test is carried out, test guides and
practice tests may be found on CISIA’s portal.
The SAT is a standardized test used to apply to colleges and universities worldwide. It includes a Reading
Test, a Writing and Language Test, and a Math Test. It is managed by the College Board: information on
the tests such as dates, fees, test centres, deadlines and score reports can be found on the College Board
website. The SAT has four components (excluding the optional
50-minute Essay, which is not considered for the admission procedure described in this announcement). The
timed portion of the SAT is three hours, as detailed in the table below.
The SAT total score, reported on a 400–1600 scale, combines two scores: the Evidence-Based Reading
and Writing score and the Math score (200–800 scale each). The score report, however, provides more
detailed information with further sub-scores.
To cater for a ranking that encompasses all tests accepted for the admission procedure described in this
announcement, a scale in hundredths is adopted. The conversion is based on the following conversion
formulas.
